# next

_max · Control_

> Detect separation of messages

Sends a bang out its left outlet when an incoming message is not part of the same Max "event" as a previous message. (An "event" is a mouse click, key press, MIDI event, or tick of the scheduler.) Otherwise, next sends a bang out its right outlet.

## Inlets / Outlets

| port | meaning |
|------|---------|
| in0 | Any Message |
| out0 | bang if Message is a New Event |
| out1 | bang if Message is the Same Event |

## Messages

- `bang` — Test message and cause output
  Performs the same as anything.
- `int(input: int)` — Test message and cause output
  Performs the same as anything.
- `float(input: float)` — Test message and cause output
  Performs the same as anything.
- `anything(input: list)` — Test message and cause output
  Messages are tested to determine whether they are part of the same logical event. A logical event is one of the following: a mouse click, the ongoing polling of a mouse drag, an event generated by the scheduler (such as the bang from a metro), a MIDI event, or a keyboard event. next determines whether the current message is part of the same event as the previously received message. For example, if you click on a bang twice, the two bangs are not part of the same logical event. But if you put bang, bang in a message box, or use the uzi object to send out two bangs in a row, these bangs are part of the same logical event.

## Help patcher examples

### basic

```
Example — [next]
  fan-in:
    in0 ← [Uzi 5] ← [button]    # same event should flash
    in0 ← [message "1, 2, 3"]    # same event should flash
    in0 ← [button]    # same event should not flash
    in0 ← [delay 5] ← [button]    # same event should not flash
  fan-out:
    out0 → [button]:in0    # different event
    out1 → [button]:in0    # same event
```

## See also

`uzi`, `defer`, `delay`
